Scene: Central Perk, Rachel, Phoebe, Joey, Ross, and Monica are all there as Chandler enters wearing glasses.

Chandler: Hey, you guys!

Ross and Rachel: Hey!

Chandler: So, what do you think?

Ross: About what?

Chandler: Are you kidding? Okay, I’ll give you a hint.

Joey: Eyes! No, no. Your eyes! No. Chandler’s eyes!

Chandler: I got glasses!

Ross: You always had glasses.

Chandler: No I didn’t!

Ross: Are you sure?

Rachel: Didn't you used to have a pair? They were really round, burgundy, and they made you look kind of umm…

Joey: Feminine.

Rachel: Yes!

Chandler: No!

Monica: I think the glasses look great. They make you look sexy.

Chandler: Really?

Monica: Yeah!

Chandler: You didn’t think I used to wear glasses, right?

Monica: Of course!

Scene: Monica, Chandler, and Phoebe's, Rachel, Phoebe, Chandler, and Monica are making some sandwiches.

Phoebe: What do you guys want for an engagement present?

Chandler: Oh, That’s okay we’re not having a party or anything, so you don’t have to get us…

Monica: If someone wants to give us a present, we don’t want to deprive them of that joy.

Rachel: Oh, you should get them one of those little CD players.

Monica: Oh, I already have one.

Phoebe: unless someone borrowed it and left it at the gynecologist.

Rachel: Yeah, and by someone, she means Joey.

Monica: Hey, I know what I want!

Chandler: What we want honey.

Monica: No, you don’t want this. I want to have your grandmother’s cookie recipe.

Phoebe: You mean the chocolate chip cookie recipe?

Monica: Uh-huh, yeah.

Phoebe: The one my grandmother made me swear on her deathbed that I would never let out of our family?

Chandler: Dying people say the craziest things.

Monica: I wanted it for years! I was gonna make cookies for my children.

Phoebe: Break my heart—Oh, all right.

Monica: I'll be the mom that makes the world’s best chocolate chip cookies.

Chandler: Our kids are gonna be fat aren’t they.

Joey: Ahoy!

Chandler: Hey! How’s the boat?!

Joey: Great! I’m finally getting into this sailing stuff.

Monica: Oh, so you finally took it out of the marina?

Joey: Why would I do that? It took three guys to get the thing in there!

Phoebe: If you don’t sail it, what do you do on it?

Joey: Oh, it’s great! It’s a great place to just kinda, sit, hang around, drink a few beers, eat some chips.

Chandler: It’s good that you finally have a place to do that.

Rachel: Joey, I could teach you to sail if you want.

Joey: You could?

Rachel: Yeah! I’ve been sailing my whole life. When I was fifteen my dad bought me my own boat.

Phoebe: Your own boat?

Rachel: He was trying to cheer me up! My pony was sick.

Scene: Central Perk, Chandler and Monica are there. He takes off his glasses and starts chewing on the ear piece.

Chandler: You know what I was thinkin’?

Monica: What?

Chandler: Nothing, I just like to go like this.

Ross: Hey Chandler, what are you doing tonight?

Chandler: Why, do you have a lecture?

Ross: No, why?

Chandler: Then free as a bird. What’s up?

Ross: My dad wanted to know if you wanted to play racquetball.

Monica: Wow! That’s great! Dad must like you, he doesn’t ask just anyone to play.

Ross: He didn’t really ask for you, he asked for Chauncey, I assumed he meant you.

Chandler: Did you correct him?

Ross: No, I thought it would be more fun this way.

Monica: Maybe this is something you can do every week.

Ross: Or you could sit on the front porch and make sure no one steals the trash cans. He does that every week too.

Monica: Just so you know, you have to let him win.He hates to lose.

Chandler: Oh no problem, maybe I’ll play with my left hand.

Ross: You’re not a lefty?

Chandler: Does anybody know me?!

Monica: What’s wrong Phoebe?

Phoebe: I just went to my old apartment to get the cookie recipe and that stupid fire burned it up!

Monica: No!! Why didn’t you make a copy and keep it in a fireproof box and keep it at least a hundred yards away from the original?!!

Phoebe: Because I’m normal! That was the one legacy my grandmother left me, and I know you wanted it as an engagement present.

Ross: We have to get you an engagement present?

Chandler: Don’t worry about it Pheebs.

Ross: No one got me an engagement present.

Phoebe: Okay, here. I don't have the recipe, but here, I wish you health and happiness. 

Chandler: An old cookie?

Monica: See, This is what happens when you don’t register for gifts!

Phoebe: I made a batch and I froze it, and this is the only one left.

Chandler: We can’t accept this.

Phoebe: Why not?

Chandler: Because it’s gross.

Monica: No! Wait! I think I can figure out the recipe from this cookie! I do stuff like this at work all the time.

Phoebe: Really?!

Monica: I think I can.

Chandler: Okay, Ross, we owe you a present.

Ross: Two! I’ve been engaged twice!

Scene: The Mr. Bowmont (Joey’s boat), she’s shown to be in one of the waterways around New York, but in reality she’s in a sound stage on the Warner Bros. lot and we see New York from the water in some rather poor green screen shots. Rachel and Joey are on board.

Joey: Look at this clown! because he’s got a bigger boat he thinks he can take up the whole river. Get out of the way jackass! Who names their boat Coast Guard anyway?

Rachel: That is the Coast Guard.

Joey: What are they doing out here? The coast’s all the way over there.

Rachel: Joey, just ignore the boats? We’re not finished with the lesson yet.

Joey: All right.

Rachel: I'm gonna go over the basic points one more time?

Joey: Come on Rach, not again. I got it! Okay? Let’s start sailing, I want to go over there where that boatload of girls is! Yeah, oh!

Rachel: Oh. Is that what you wanna do? You want to give a shout out to the old, hot chicas? Okay, let’s do that Sailor Joe. Quick question though, what’s this called?

Joey: Uh, boat rope.

Rachel: Wrong! How do you get the mainsail up?

Joey: Uh, rub it?

Rachel: No. What do you do if I say we are coming about?

Joey: I’d say, come again. No,I know this one, uh…

Rachel: Time’s up, now you're dead.

Joey: And deaf!

Rachel: Okay, you go on and make your little jokes, if you don't know what you're doing out at sea you will die at sea. Am I getting through to you sailor?!

Joey: Yes.

Rachel: Don’t just say yes! This isn’t a game, Joey, you can get hurt out here. So do you want to pay attention or do you want to die?!

Joey: I want to make a ship to shore call to Chandler.

Scene: Monica, Chandler, and Phoebe's, Monica and Phoebe are trying to determine the cookie recipe by eating small pieces.

Monica: All right, I definitely taste nutmeg.

Phoebe: You do?

Monica: You don’t? Well, that’s the difference between a professional and a layman.

Phoebe: That and arrogance.

Joey: Hey.

Monica: Hey! How was sailing?

Joey: I don’t want to talk about it. You could’ve saved me a whole cookie.

Monica and Phoebe: Nno!!!!!!!

Joey:  Women are mean!!!

Phoebe: I can’t believe that! Now the only thing left of my grandmother’s legacy is this crumb. I wish you a long and happy marriage.

Ross: Hey.

Monica: How was it?

Ross: Well I had a great time! Um, Chauncey on the other hand…

Chandler: I will tell the story! It was going great. I let him win. We were bonding. He even said I could call him dad.

Ross: And what did he ask you not to call him?

Chandler: Daddy. look, here’s the story. We had just finished playing racquetball and we were gonna take a steam. I walk into the steam room and it was really steamy.So I take off my glasses and that’s when it happened. Guys?

Ross: Over here.

Mr. Geller: Have a seat son. Hey!! 

Scene: Monica, Chandler, and Phoebe's, Chandler is finished telling everyone what happened.

Monica: Oh my God Chandler! I can’t believe it!

Chandler: I know.

Monica: You gave my father a lap dance!

Chandler: Why do they put so much steam in there?!

Ross: ‘Cause otherwise they’d have to call it the room.

Chandler: Why? Okay? Why? why did that have to happen?

Phoebe: Come on, it’s not that big a deal!

Chandler: Not that big a deal? There was touching of things.

Ross: I know you wanted to bond with my dad, but did you really have to bond to that part?

Monica: Listen, I’m sure dad doesn’t care. He probably thought this was funny; he’ll be telling this story for years!

Chandler: I don’t want him to tell this story for years.

Ross: Oh, but he will. He still tells the story how Monica tried to escape from fat camp.

Monica: I wasn’t escaping.

Ross: Then how did you get caught in the barbed wire?

Monica: I was trying to help out a squirrel.

Ross: You were trying to eat it!

Chandler: If that is your father calling to tell this story then the marriage is off!

Monica: Come on. Hello? I’m sorry you have the wrong number. Okay, I’ll call you later dad. I love you.

Scene: Central Perk, Chandler, Ross, and Rachel are there.

Chandler: All right, I’m off to see your dad.

Ross: Sren’t you a little over dressed?

Rachel: Yeah, and you better make sure he tips you this time.

Chandler: I figured I would try to convince him not to tell the story anymore, and I figure the best way to do that was face to face—And by face I don’t mean his lap. And by face, I don’t mean my ass.

Ross: Are you getting Monica and Chandler an engagement present?

Rachel: I don’t know. Y’know, they didn’t get us anything.

Ross: Thank you!

Joey: Hey.

Ross: Hey.

Rachel: Well hello! So, when are we gettin’ back out on the water matey?

Joey: Oh uh, I don’t know the boat way to say this, but never!

Rachel: Why not?

Joey: Because! You’re mean on the boat!

Rachel: What? I was just trying to teach you.

Joey: Well, lesson learned! Rachel is mean!

Ross: I remember when she took me out on her dad’s boat she wouldn’t let me help at all.

Rachel: Excuse me, I wanted you to help, but you couldn’t move your arms because you were wearing three life jackets.

Ross: You have to respect the sea! 

Rachel: Look Joey, I’m sorry if you thought that was mean, but I gotta tell ya something. That was not mean. My father is mean. He used to yell at me all the time on the boat, It was horrible. I was being a good teacher.

Joey: Does a good teacher say, "Put down the beer pinhead!?"

Rachel: Well, does a good student drink seven beers during his first lesson?

Joey: Six and a half! You knocked that last one out of my hand! Remember?

Rachel: I didn’t want you to get hit by the boom!

Joey: Well it hit me anyway! And it would’ve hurt a lot less if I had finished that last beer.

Rachel: I’m sorry. I will try to tone it down and uh stop yelling.

Joey: You won’t boss me around?

Rachel: No

Joey: And you’ll be nice?

Rachel: And, I’ll be nice.

Joey: And you’ll be topless?

Rachel: And I—Joey!

Joey: Do you want me to learn?!

Scene: Monica, Chandler, and Phoebe's, Monica is trying out different cookie recipes. Ross and Phoebe are the tasting group.

Monica: Okay, here’s batch twenty two. Maybe these’ll taste like your grandmother’s. This has a bit of orange peel, but no nutmeg.

Ross: Let’s give it a shot.

Monica: I have not made so many cookies since I was in the ninth grade.

Phoebe: what was that for? a bake sale?

Monica: No, just a Friday night.

Ross: Oh, these are pretty good.

Phoebe: Yeah, but not as good as batch seventeen.

Ross: Which one was that?

Monica: The ones we had after you almost threw up.

Ross: Oh yeah! Batch seventeen was good. I did not like batch sixteen.I’m okay.

Phoebe: Are there any more from the good batch?  we could  work off  those.

Ross: Well, yeah, I think there's one from batch seventeen left, uh… batch Sixteen people! Get out of the way! 

Scene: The Mr. Bowmont, it's Joey’s second lesson with Rachel as the resident sailing expert.

Rachel: Okay Joey honey, you’re doing really good! I just need you to step to the portside.Remember how we talked about the portside?

Joey: Oh yeah.

Rachel: Right?

Joey: No.

Rachel: It’s left sweetie, but that’s okay that’s a tough one.

Joey: why not just say left?

Rachel: Okay, go to the left. The left!

Joey: Huh?

Rachel: Just sit over there!! 

Joey: Okay! Okay, you’re yelling again! See that?

Rachel: no, very quiet, said with love, no yelling.

Joey:You know what? Since I’m here, I'm gonna have a beer on the portside.See what I did there? Ha, ha.

Rachel: we’re luffing a little Will you tighten up the Cunningham?

Joey: Whoa you just said a bunch of stuff I don't know.

Rachel: Joey, come on! We just went over this! 

Joey: Oh, when we did that was when that bird was overhead with the fish in his mouth. Did you see it? It was gross!

Rachel: No! I did not see the bird! I did not see the fish! I did not see the piece of Styrofoam shaped like Mike Tyson! I did not, because I was trying to teach you how to sail a boat! Which obviously is an impossible thing to do!

Joey: That’s it! You’re yelling and I don’t see you taking your top off! I quit!

Rachel: What do you mean?! You can’t quit!

Joey: Why not?!

Rachel: Because you’re not finished and I won’t have it! Greens do not quit!

Joey: Greens? I’m a Tribbiani! And Tribbianis quit!

Rachel: Oh my God, wait did I just said Greens don’t quit didn’t I? Did I just say Greens don’t quit?!

Joey: Yes! and you’re still yelling at me!

Rachel: No! I’m not yelling at you, I’m just yelling near you. Oh God Joey, oh I’m my father. Oh my God, this is horrible! I’ve been trying so hard not to be my mother I did not see this comin’. Oh, Joey, I’m sorry. I’m so sorry. I just wanted you to learn.

Joey: Well, hey I did learn.

Rachel: Really?

Joey: Yeah! Come on.

Rachel: no

Joey: Yeah, it’s okay. I know what a mainsail is.huh I know, I know to duck when the boom comes across. I know port is right.

Rachel: Left.

Joey: Damn it!

Scene: Monica, Chandler, and Phoebe's, the cookie-trying period has passed. Monica, Phoebe, and Ross are reflecting on the day’s events.

Phoebe: Y’know, I bet it would make my grandmother happy to know that we’re trying to figure out her recipe. I bet she’s looking up at us and smiling right now.

Ross: Looking up?

Phoebe: Oh yeah—No, she was really nice to me, but she’s in hell for sure.

Monica: Well, I’ve tried everything. I give up. I guess I’m not gonna be the mom who makes the world’s best cookies. I do make the best duck confit with broccoli rabe.  Kids love that right.

Ross: Aww, Pheeb, isn’t there any relative that would have the recipe?  what about your sister?

Phoebe: Oh no, I made a promise to myself that the next time I would talk to Ursula is over my dead body. And that’s not happening until October fifteenth, two thousand thirty two.

Ross: That’s the day you’re gonna die? See—darn it, I’ve got shuffleboard that day.

Phoebe: That’s what you think.

Monica: what about friends of your grandmother’s? Wouldn’t they have the recipe?

Phoebe: You know I may have relatives in France who would know. My grandmother said she got the recipe from her grandmother, Nesele Tolouse.

Monica: What was her name?

Phoebe: Nesele Toulouse.

Monica: Nestle Toll House?!

Phoebe: you Americans always butcher the French language.

Monica: Phoebe, is this the recipe? 

Phoebe: Yes!! Oh.

Monica: I cannot believe that I spent the last two days trying to figure out the recipe and it was in my cupboard the whole time!

Phoebe: I know! You see it is stuff like this which is why you’re burning in hell!!

Scene: The Gym, Chandler and Mr. Geller are heading for the whirlpool room.

Chandler: So you understand, I’d feel a lot more comfortable if you didn’t tell people . You know, I’m a little embarrassed about it.

Mr. Geller: I understand completely, there’s nothing more horrifying than embarrassing yourself in front of your in-laws. As a matter of fact, when I started dating Judy I was unemployed,  her father asked me what I did for a living and I told him I was a lawyer.

Chandler: What did you do when they found out?

Mr. Geller: They never did, so if you ever see me giving them legal advice just nod along. Shall we?

Chandler: So I guess we wear swimsuits in here!

Scene: The Mr. Bowmont, is tied up alongside the pier; Joey and Rachel are relaxing.

Rachel: Well Joey, I hate to admit it, your way of sailing is a lot more fun.

Joey: Yeah, yeah. Hey, why don’t you give a pull on that rope? 

Rachel: we’re not sailing.

Joey: Just pull on it.

Rachel: All right.  Hey Sandwiches!

Joey: What else?

Rachel: Here you go.

Joey: Thank you.

Rachel: Oh wow! 

Joey: What are you doing?

Rachel: oops, sorry.

Joey: Wdon’t hold it like that! You’re letting all the good stuff fall out.

Rachel: Oh oops.

Joey: Careful! You’re wasting good pastrami! Oh my God! I’m my dad!